---
layout: page
title: Research
description: Peer reviewed publications
---

This is a list of my publications in peer-review journals and conference proceedings. Copies of almost all of these papers are available on [my ResearchGate page](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Ian_Durbach). If something is not available, send me an email and I’ll be happy to share it with you. My Google Scholar profile is [here](https://scholar.google.co.za/citations?user=xwALMPgAAAAJ&hl=en).

### 2021
- Dufourq E, Durbach I, Hansford J, Hoepfner A, Ma H, ... (2021). Automated detection of Hainan gibbon calls for passive acoustic monitoring. To appear in Remote Sensing in Ecology and Conservation.
- Conway A, Durbach I, McInnes A, Harris R. (2021). Frame-by-frame annotation of video recordings using deep neural networks. Ecosphere 12(3), e03384, 1–11.
- Durbach I, Borchers D, Sutherland C and Sharma K. (2021). Fast, flexible alternatives to regular grid designs for spatial capture-recapture. Methods in Ecology and Evolution 12, 298-310.

### 2020
- Durbach I, Algorta S, Kantu D, Katsikopoulos K, Simsek O. (2020). Fast and frugal heuristics for portfolio decisions with positive project interactions. Decision Support Sys- tems 138, 113399, 1–12.
- Watson N, Hendricks S, Stewart T and Durbach I. (2020). Integrating machine learning and decision support in tactical decision-making in rugby union. To appear in Journal of the Operational Research Society.
- Guazzo R, Helble T, Alongi G, Durbach I, Martin C, Martin S, Henderson E. (2020). The Lombard effect in singing humpback whales: Source levels increase as ambient ocean noise levels increase. The Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, 148(2), 542–555.
- Helble T, Guazzo R, Martin C, Durbach I, Alongi G, Martin S, Boyle J and Henderson E. (2020). Lombard effect: Minke whale boing call source levels vary with natural variations in ocean noise. The Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, 147(2), 698–712.
- Lombard AT, Durbach I, Harris JM, Mann-Lang J, Mann BQ, Branch GM, and Attwood CG. (2020). South Africa’s Tsitsikamma Marine Protected Area – winners and losers. In Marine Protected Areas (pp. 237–270). Elsevier.
- von Witt CG, Anderson B, Durbach IN, and Johnson SD. (2020). Breeding systems of floral colour forms in the Drosera cistiflora species complex. Plant Biology, 22(6), 992– 1001.
- Ebert PA, Smith M, and Durbach I. (2020). Varieties of Risk. Philosophy and Phe- nomenological Research 101(2), 432–455.
- Durbach IN and Stewart TJ. (2020). Probability and Beyond: Including Uncertainties in Decision Analysis. In Behavioral Operational Research (pp. 75-91). Palgrave Macmillan.

### 2019
- Rakotonirainy RG, Durbach IN and Nyirenda J. (2019). Considering fairness in the load shedding scheduling problem. ORiON 35(2), 127–144.
- Durbach, I. (2019). *Scenario planning in the analytic hierarchy process*. Futures & Foresight Science, e16.
- Rohde R, Hoffman MT, Durbach I, Venter Z and Jack S. (2019) *Vegetation and climate change in the Pro-Namib and Namib Desert based on repeat photography: Insights into climate trends*. Journal of Arid Environments 165: 119-131
- Durbach, I. N., & Montibeller, G. (2019). *Behavioural Analytics: Exploring judgments and choices in large data sets*. Journal of the Operational Research Society, 70(2), 255-268

### 2018
- Kock A, Photopoulou T, Durbach I, Mauff K, Meyer M, Kotze D, Griffiths C and O'Riain MJ. (2018). *Summer at the beach: spatio-temporal patterns of white shark occurrence along the inshore areas of False Bay, South Africa*. Movement Ecology 6:7.
- Katsikopoulos K., Durbach, IN, and Stewart TJ (2018). *When should we use simple decision models? A synthesis of various research strands*. Omega, 81, 17-25.
- Durbach IN and Montibeller G (2018). *Predicting in Shock: On the Impact of Negative, Extreme, Rare, and Short Lived Events on Judgmental Forecasts.* EURO Journal on Decision Processes 6: 213-–233.
- Ebert P, Smith M, and Durbach IN (2018). *Lottery judgments: A philosophical and experimental study.* Philosophical Psychology 31(1): 110--138.

### 2017

- Watson NM, Durbach IN, Hendricks S and Stewart TJ. (2017). *On the validity of team performance indicators in rugby union.* International Journal of Performance Analysis in Sport 17(4): 609--621
- Durbach IN, Merven B and McCall B (2017). *Expert elicitation of autocorrelated time series with application to e3 (energy-environment-economic) forecasting models*. Environmental Software and Modelling 88: 93-105.

### 2016

- Durbach IN and Calder J (2016). *Modelling uncertainty in stochastic multicriteria acceptability analysis*. Omega 64: 13-23.
- Rodgers A, Mokoena M, Durbach I et al.\ (2016). *Do teas rich in antioxidants reduce the physicochemical and peroxidative risk factors for calcium oxalate nephrolithiasis in humans? Pilot studies with Rooibos herbal tea and Japanese green tea*. Urolithiasis 44: 299-310.
- Jack S, Hoffman T, Rohde R, and Durbach I (2016). *Climate change sentinel or false prophet? The case of Aloe dichotoma*. Diversity and Distributions 22: 745-757.
- Stewart TJ and Durbach IN (2016). *Dealing with Uncertainties in MCDA*. In Greco S, Ehrgott M, Figuera JM (eds), Multiple Criteria Decision Analysis: State of the Art Surveys, Springer. Chapter 12: 467-496.

### 2015

- Durbach IN and Lloyd G (2015). *Eliminating order effects in association tasks without using randomization*. International Journal of Market Research 57(5): 759-776.
- Calder J and Durbach IN. (2015) *Decision support for player selection in rugby*. International Journal of Sports Science and Coaching 10(1): 21-38.

### 2014

- Durbach IN, Lahdelma R, Salminen P (2014). *The analytic hierarchy process with stochastic judgments*. European Journal of Operational Research 238: 552-559
- Clark AE and Durbach IN (2014). *Using Bayesian change-point models to assess changes in customer loyalty over time*. Management Dynamics 23(2): 14-26.
- Jack SL, Hoffman MT, Rohde RF, Durbach I, Archibald, M (2014). *Blow me down! A new perspective on Aloe dichotoma mortality as a result of windthrow.*. BMC Ecology 14:7
- Durbach IN (2014). *Outranking under uncertainty using scenarios*. European Journal of Operational Research 232, 98-108

### 2013

- Gweshe TM and Durbach IN (2013). *An analysis of the efficiency of player performance at the 2011 Cricket World Cup*. ORiON 29(2), 137-153
- Rodgers AL, Allie-Hamdulay S, Jackson GE, and Durbach I (2013). *Theoretical modelling of the urinary supersaturation of calcium salts in healthy individuals and kidney stone patients: Precursors, speciation and therapeutic protocols for decreasing its value*. Journal of Crystal Growth 382, 67-74
- Durbach I, Scott L, Nyirenda J, Silal S (2013). *Operational research(ers) in development: Growing a new generation of operational researchers*. ORiON 29(1), 87-102
- Durbach IN, Katshunga D and Parker H (2013). *Community structure and centrality effects in the South African company network*. South African Journal of Business Management 44(2), 35-43 

### 2012 

- Durbach IN and Davis SJ (2012). *Decision support for selecting a shortlist of electricity-saving options: a modified SMAA approach*. ORiON 28(2), 99-116
- Durbach IN and Stewart TJ (2012). *Modeling uncertainty in multi-criteria decision analysis*. European Journal of Operational Research 223, 1-14 
- Durbach IN (2012). *An empirical test of the evidential reasoning approach's synthesis axioms*. Expert Systems with Applications 39, 11048-11054
- Durbach IN and Stewart TJ (2012). *A comparison of simplified value function approaches for treating uncertainty in multi-criteria decision analysis*. Omega 40, 456-464 

### Earlier

- Durbach IN and Stewart TJ (2011). *An experimental study of the effect of uncertainty representation on decision making*. European Journal of Operational Research 214, 380-392 
- Davis S and Durbach I (2010). *Modelling household responses to energy efficiency interventions via systems dynamics and survey data*. ORiON 26(2), 79-96 
- Durbach IN (2009). *The use of the SMAA acceptability index in descriptive decision analysis*. European Journal of Operational Research 196, 1229-1337 
- Durbach IN (2009). *On the estimation of a satisficing model of choice using stochastic multicriteria acceptability analysis*, Omega 37, 497-509 
- Durbach IN and Stewart TJ (2009). *Using expected values to simplify decision making under uncertainty*. Omega 37, 312-330 
- Durbach IN and Parker H (2009). *An analysis of corporate board networks in South Africa*. South African Journal of Business Management 40(2), 15-26
- Durbach IN, Naidoo D and Mouton J (2008). *Co-authorship networks in South African chemistry and mathematics*. South African Journal of Science 104, 487-492 
- Barr GDI and Durbach IN (2008). *Consumer preference for risk and return: the slot machine case*. International Gambling Studies 8(3), 265-280 
- Durbach IN and Barr GDI (2008). *Illustrating dependence between random variables using slot machines*, Teaching Statistics 30(3), 89-92 
- Durbach IN and Thiart J (2007). *On a common perception of a random sequence in cricket*, South African Statistics Journal 41, 157-183 
- Durbach IN and Hofmeyr JH (2007). *Interactions between market barriers and communication networks in marketing systems*, Proceedings of the sixth international joint conference on autonomous agents and multiagent systems, ACM Press, New York, 375-382 
- Durbach IN (2006). *A simulation-based test of stochastic multicriteria acceptability analysis using achievement functions*, European Journal of Operational Research 170, 923-934
- Durbach IN and Hofmeyr JH (2006). *An agent-based model of the effect of referrals on systems of satisficing decision makers*, Proceedings of 11th Annual International Conference on Industrial Engineering Theory, Applications \& Practice, Nagoya, Japan, 1326-1331  
- Durbach IN and Stewart TJ (2003). *Integrating scenario planning and goal programming*, Journal of Multi-criteria Decision Analysis 12, 261-271
